How you doing?
Guys will come back into another video about creating a virtual private cloud.
In this lab, we are going to create a VPC, and this time we are not going to use the wizard.
We are going to start building the PC component by a component.
So this is will enable us to basically understand the VPC structure in a WAC.
So the first thing I will do is to go to a W, you can see here I have my adobe console and now let
us go and create the first task which is creating the VPC.
So we want to go to the VPC console from here and we can see we have two pieces now.
This is the default VPC.
And this is going to be clear from the IP address, which is one 72.30 1.0.0, which is basically enable
you to create and to have a default VPC So you can create your resources and you start doing some work
in a WAC without creating of ABC, especially when you want to do some testing and experiment.
Now there is a shared VPC and this shared VPC.
We will use it later on in the coming task in order to create a peer to peer connection.
Now let us go and click on Create of ABC.
Now the name of this VPC is going to be Lab.
VPC and the IP address.
The key idea, it's going to be ten 000 with the slash 16.
Now we want to choose create from here.
And this is going to create a VBAC.
Now, once this VBAC is created, you will select it.
And now we want just to make sure that any resources we create in this VBAC will get a domain name system.
And with this is will be happening by enabling a DNS.
So we are going to edit a DNS hostname and enable.
Now after we do this, we want just to close this.
I love ABC and then we go back to create subnets in this VPC following to the diagram that we can see
here.
Now, we're now in this love VPC.
We want to end the public subnet and a private subnet.
So we are going to create a subnet and this will be in the lab VPC and we will select it as a rename
as public subnet.
Now this is going to be in the first availability zone and this is going to be ten 0.0.0.
Now, this is going to be a segment of the IP address of the virtual private cloud, our VPC.
And so we will get it like a slash 24, click on it, create.
The next step, guys is to create another subnet and this is will be basically.
To select a public subnet.
Okay.
And from that public subnets, we want to go to action.
And from action we want to modify or to assign IP sitting and we want to select or to assign IP before.
So this is basically will enable us to have.
Any resources in this VPC to get basically an IP address from the recipe server click save.
Now we need to create another subnet.
This is will be another VPC.
This time it will be called the private subnet.
Now in the same advertisement zone which is the first US East when a and the IP block is going to be
ten 0.2.0 with a slash 23.
So you can see here we allocate more spaces for the private subnet.
And click on Create.
Now we want to create an Internet gateway in Tasker three.
So in Tasker three, you want to go to the Internet gateway and click.
On create.
Now the name of this Internet gateway is going to be let AGW create an Internet gateway.
Now the next step is going to basically go to the Internet gateway going back.
Select the Internet gateway.
And from action we want to attach it to a VPC.
We are going to select the cloud VPC from this text field and this that the Internet gateway, which
means now any resources we create in our public subnet will be able to access the Internet and they
will be accessible from the Internet.
In Tusk.
For now, we want to create a round table.
Now you could see from hand that you have only in this particular lab.
You have only lab VPC with men equal.
Yes.
And this is pointing to one destination because we haven't added an AIDS gateway.
Before.
So we need to before we add that as the gateway, we need to create a public cloud table.
And we will call this now.
Private.
Round table.
I know Celeste allowed BBC.
And this will create a drought table.
Oh, sorry.
Just let me go back 1/2 in step number 21.
We want to select the last VPC.
So this is with the main equal.
Yes.
And this is from the previous class.
We call this private.
Round table.
Click Save now after you save this as a private roundtable.
Now we need to go and create a public roundtable.
So we're going to cause this public round table.
Now this is going to be in the lab VPC.
So create an output now from this crowd table.
We need to go to the roots that we have.
So this is our.
Public roundtable and both they are in the same love ABC So you could verify your work from drought.
We edit droughts and we add and now we say for any other IP which is 0.0200, go to the AGW or to the
internet gateway.
So if you select Internet Gateway, this is the Internet gateway that I just create Click Save.
Now go back into that public roundtable.
We want to do a subnet association.
Of course, we want to link with the public subnet because it is a public roundtable.
Now we want to create.
That public roundtable.
It's now giving us an Internet access because we link it to the Internet gateway.
The next thing in Task four is to go to security group.
We create a security group, and this security group is going to be an app security group
which will allow an initiative to be traffic to our public subnet resources.
So you need to delete the default one and select allow VPC.
We need to add a role for his keep.
And this is will be from anywhere.
Click now in create a security group.
Now we want to launch an application server in that public subnet.
So we are going to go to the easy to.
And from the ACTU we will lunch and instant.
It will be with the next two.
It's going to be T2 Micro.
Now we want it to be in our lab, VPC in our public subnet.
As well.
And we want to basically and you can see now we have auto assigned IP enable.
Now in the user today in the role section.
So we want this easy to to assume a role.
So there is a role we need to attach to it.
And this is can be done by this option here.
And select an inventory role now in the user data.
We want to copy the script, which is basically to install Apache Web server and put a demo application
in our web server.
No the storage at TAG and we need to call this name.
Observers.
And now in configure security group, we are going to select the existing security group we just created,
which is the ARB security group.
If you continue and launch.
Now, this is the an instance it should be running.
We need to open this web server here and we paste the URL or the public IP of the app server.
So this is pretty much what we have done in this lab.
We create a VPC and then we attach to it and two subnets and one of them is an Internet gateway.
You could also carry on if you want to practice more, you can carry on in that.
VPC You create another gateway and then you link it to the private subnet, and in your private subnets
you could do many things.
Thank you for seeing this video and I would see you in the next one.